Title: Infinity Stones 
Source: marvel.fandom.com
Date: 2024


The Infinity Stones (formerly known as the Infinity Gems and the Soul Gems) are powerful artifacts that originated from the original universe, found below the Quarry of Creation and inhabited by Celestials.[5][6][7] That universe contains countless Infinity Stones, which get sent to other universes by the Celestials.[8]
Magus Saga
The Soul Stone came into the possession of the High Evolutionary, who gifted it to Adam Warlock.[9] The Mind Stone was discovered buried beneath the planet Deneb IV by the Supreme Intelligence.[10] The Time Stone was used by the Gardener, while the Power Stone was found by the Stranger.[11] The Space Stone and Reality Stone were both stolen by Thanos - one from a prison satellite, and the other from a powerful being called Xiambor.[12]
Thanos was eventually able to steal all but the Soul Stone, but through posing as an ally to Warlock against the Magus, he was able to siphon enough energy from it to build a giant artificial Soul Stone, which he used to contain the others. He intended to destroy the universe by using the gems to destroy the stars. He was stopped by the Avengers, Adam Warlock and Captain Marvel.[12][13]
Elders of the Universe
The Soul Gems were believed to be destroyed, but the Astronomer discovered that they weren't. The Elders of the Universe managed to obtain all but the Mind Stone, which had finally been obtained by the Supreme Intelligence.[14] After the Silver Surfer stole the Mind Stone away, the Elders coerced him into handing it over to them by holding Shalla-Bal and Mantis hostage.
Connecting the six Soul Gems to a device, they were able to use its beams to absorb the life energy of Galactus and transfer it to a barren planet, giving it life. Knowing that the death of Galactus threatened the stability of the universe, the Silver Surfer interfered and destroyed the machine, and the gems were lost in a black hole.[15] Galactus also punished some of the Elders by consuming them.[16]
Because the Elders of the Universe were barred from entering Death's realm due to prior machinations of the Grandmaster, Galactus soon found himself being poisoned from within by the Elders he consumed.[17] To save Galactus, who asserted that only one of the gems had the power to absorb the immortal Elders' souls inside his body, Silver Surfer, Mr. Fantastic, and the Invisible Woman journeyed through the black hole to recover the gems, where Invisible Woman became possessed by the sentient Soul Gem and had her evil Malice persona awakened.[18] She was later subdued, but the whole scheme turned out to be work of the In-Betweener so he could use the gems to destroy Galactus.[19]
Reed, Sue, and the Silver Surfer were able to get into contact with Master Order and Lord Chaos, and the two entities agreed to aid them in stopping the In-Betweener. They then used their powers to free the Elders of the Universe who were trapped inside Galactus and restore him to full strength.[20] Master Order and Lord Chaos then dealt with the In-Betweener before he caused any more trouble and entrusted five of the Soul Gems to the Elders of the Universe, while the In-Betweener was imprisoned by his masters and retained his Gem.[21]
Infinity Gauntlet
After being resurrected, Thanos gazed into the Infinity Well and realized the Gems' true nature, so he set out to acquire all of the Soul Gems again (now named Infinity Gems). There it was revealed that the Infinity Gems are the remnants of one of the earliest beings from the time of the universe's creation. Feeling lonely, it split itself into six different fragments. Under unknown reasons, each individual gem became associated with a particular facet: power, space, time, mind, soul and reality.[22]

The Infinity Gems were kept by the In-Betweener and by members of the Elders of the Universe who, on the contrary, were not aware of the true essence of their Gems.[23] The mad Titan Thanos then gathered these gems into the Infinity Gauntlet. He took the Soul Gem from the In-Betweener, the Power Gem from the Champion, the Time Gem from the Gardener, the Reality Gem from the Collector, the Space Gem from the Runner, and the Mind Gem from the Grandmaster.[22]
Thanos used the Infinity Gauntlet to remove from existence half of the population of the universe in order to gain Death's love.[24] In the end, Thanos was defeated when Adam Warlock was able to gain possession of the Infinity Gauntlet.[25]
Infinity War
Adam Warlock was brought before the Living Tribunal because of the danger posed by the Infinity Gauntlet in his hand. After being shown that Adam Warlock was too mentally unpredictable, he was required to surrender it. Since it was too dangerous for it to be possessed by anyone, the Living Tribunal decreed that the Infinity Gems were too powerful to be used together again. Warlock then formed the Infinity Watch.[26]
During the Infinity War, Magus, Adam Warlock's evil persona, tricked Galactus into convincing Eternity to agree to the activation of the Infinity Gauntlet so he could conquer the universe. Magus defeated the heroes using the activated Infinity Gauntlet. Still, Adam was able to defeat the Magus when it was revealed that the Reality Gem was a fake and Adam, taking advantage of this distraction, was able to trap the Magus in his Soul Gem, though the act left Warlock in a comatose state.[27]
Ultraverse

The Gems were later stolen by the vampire Rune from the Ultraverse and dispersed throughout the Ultraverse.[28] Several heroes and villains were also pulled into the Ultraverse, including Adam Warlock. In that universe, another gem, the Ego Gem, was found. It claimed that it was the main consciousness of the Infinity Gems, the original being and was now ready to reclaim itself. The gems gestated as Nemesis, but were defeated by the Avengers and UltraForce (alongside several alternate reality versions of the same teams). With its defeat, the Ego Gem was seemingly destroyed.[29][30]
The gems were found to be back in the universe by Galactus who planned on using them to end his unending hunger. He is seen taking the gems off a vampire's skeleton (presumably Rune) that he retrieves through an inter-dimensional portal. Galactus' plan fails, and instead allows a deadly inter-dimensional parasite, named Hunger, access into the Earth-616 universe who was mentally influencing Galactus' actions all along. Thanos intervened and destroyed the gateway. After Hunger is defeated, the gems are scattered throughout the universe except for the Soul Gem, which Thanos retrieved for Warlock to get back.[31]
Illuminati
Champion would find the Power Stone and use it to give him an advantage over challengers he fought in his arena but agreed to stop using it when She-Hulk told him its a weapon, which weren't allowed during his challenges.[32] The Power Gem later fell into the hands of Titania,[33] before being taken by She-Hulk.[34]
She-Hulk turned the Power Gem over to Mister Fantastic for safekeeping, which prompted Reed to seek help from his fellow Illuminati to gather the remaining gems with the objective to ensure they wouldn't cause any more trouble for the Earth. Once the gems were all brought together in the Infinity Gauntlet, Reed tried to will them out of existence, but failed. Uatu the Watcher then appeared to the Illuminati and expressed his disappointment in Reed and the Illuminati. The Illuminati then divided the gems amongst themselves. Of the Gems, Iron Man received Reality, Prof. Xavier Mind, Namor Time, Black Bolt Space, Dr. Strange Soul, and Reed Richards Power. Due to the events following the gathering of the Gems, the Illuminati disbanded for a time.[35]
After The Hood stole three of the Gems, and while looking for the fourth one, the Illuminati gathered once more and, with the Avengers' help, stopped him. After recovering once more the six Infinity Gems, they again divided the Gems among themselves (this time, Namor received the Power; Mister Fantastic, the Reality; Professor Xavier, the Mind; Captain America, the Time; Iron Man, the Space; and Dr. Strange, the Soul gems) and disbanded once more.[36]
The group assembled after the Black Panther discovered that the Earth was affected by the incursions, a multiversal phenomena that caused the periodical collision between realities.[37] In an attempt to stop the the latest incursion, the Illuminati assembled the Infinity Gauntlet. Even though Captain America managed to prevent the incursion, all the gems shattered, with the exception of the Time Gem, which simply vanished.[1]
The Time Gem unexpectedly returned some time later and transported the Avengers through time.[38] During each time jump, the Gem returned more of the heroes back to the present until only Captain America remained,[39][40] who was rescued by Iron Lad.[41] Following a confrontation against Iron Lad and his future counterparts, Kang the Conqueror and Immortus, Captain America retrieved the Time Gem and used it to return to the present, though it vanished again afterwards.[42]